understanding exactly how this works is
really important and unfortunately it's
one of those things that it's easy to
learn an overly complex Byzantine set of
rules for how things work but there's
actually a simple way to think about it
so the way to think about this is this
false every variable in Java when you
declare one has a compile time type or I
sometimes call it a static type and that
thing never ever changes so for example
when I say living thing lt1 I get a box
and this is a memory box at 64 bits and
it can only ever point at a living thing
now every variable also has a dynamic
type sometimes called a runtime type and
this is the type specified at
instantiation that is when you say new
and it's equal to the type of the object
being pointed at that's what we mean by
runtime type so at this point I haven't
instantiated anything so the note the
dynamic type will just note as null
along comes this next line of code we
make a new Fox and we say el t1 equals
that so new fox gets created we copy its
address and lt1 here's that creature and
now we have a dynamic type its Fox it's
the type of the object being pointed at
and so we'll continue so next comes
animal a1 equals LT 1 in this case we
get a new box that holds animal
references it's static type is animal
and it never changes in fact look at
that it's like inscribed right on the
box can't get rid of that and it's
dynamic type is Fox and we can also have
variables of static type Fox that's fine
so I make a variable a static type Fox
it also points a fox in this case the
static and the dynamic type are both Fox
lastly we decide LT 1 is now going to
point at a new object which is a squid
so the static type of course does not
change because it never does but the
dynamic type is now squid ok great
so what well this is the rule thing if
you know the dynamic type of something
then you know what happens with an over
in method so suppose we call a method of
an object using a variable which has
compile time type X and runtime type Y
so for example compile time type list
and run time type s list as shown here
then if it is the case
that the dynamic type overrides the
method then the dynamic types method
will be used instead
and that's something known as dynamic
method selection this term is a little
bit obscure and it's not totally
standard but I don't really have a great
term so we use it in our course so in
this case whenever we call something
even though we're using the variable s1
which is this variable right here
because of the fact that the S list
class overrides it we use the dynamic
types method instead that's what you
need to know